= How to Research Your Home =

This guide walks you through the process of researching the history of your property in downtown Benicia.

== Step 1: Find Your Property Page ==
Search for your current street address using the search box at the top of any wiki page. Every property in the downtown area and Arsenal has a page.

If your property page says "Data Confidence: Stub," that means only basic address data exists and it's waiting for someone like you to add historical information.

== Step 2: Check the Sanborn Maps ==
The Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps are your best starting point for understanding your property's physical history.

# Go to [[:Category:Sanborn Maps|Sanborn Maps]]
# Find the sheets that cover your block
# Compare your property across the available years: 1886, 1891, 1899, 1913, 1942

'''What to look for:'''
* When does your building first appear?
* Has it been expanded or modified?
* What materials was it built from?
* What was its original use?
* Does the address number match the current one?

'''Important:''' Benicia's street numbers have changed over time. Your current address (e.g., "123 West G Street") might appear as a different number on older maps (e.g., "45 G Street"). This is normal and is valuable historical data. Record both addresses on your property page.

== Step 3: Look Up Census Records ==
Census records tell you who lived at your address and what they did for a living.

# Visit [https://www.familysearch.org FamilySearch.org] (free) or [https://www.ancestry.com Ancestry.com] (subscription)
# Search for Benicia, Solano County, California
# Start with the '''1910 census''' (it aligns with the 1913 Sanborn map)
# Work backward through 1900, 1880, 1870, 1860, 1850
# Work forward through 1920, 1930, 1940, 1950

'''Important notes:'''
* Census records before 1880 do '''not''' include street addresses
* The 1890 census was destroyed by fire; it does not exist
* Census takers made spelling errors; try variant spellings

See [[Project:Census Data Guide]] for detailed transcription instructions.

== Step 4: Check the City's Historic Survey ==
If your property is within the Downtown Historic District, it may have a DPR 523 survey form from the 2009 Historic Resources Inventory.

Contact the City of Benicia Community Development Department to request a copy, or check the city's website.

The survey form will tell you:
* Designation status (Contributor, Landmark, Non-Contributor)
* Architectural style and description
* Known build date and builder
* Historical significance

== Step 5: Visit the Library and Museum ==
* '''Benicia Public Library''' - Local history collection, city directories
* '''Benicia Historical Museum''' - Photographs, documents, oral histories

== Step 6: Add What You Find to the Wiki ==
Use the property edit form to add information:
# Click "Edit with form" on your property page
# Fill in fields you've discovered (year built, style, etc.)
# Update the Data Confidence level
# Add source citations for everything

For census data, use [[Form:CensusEntry|the Census Entry form]].

'''Always cite your sources.''' Every fact should trace back to a specific document, map, or record.

== Tips for Good Research ==
* '''Start with what you can verify''' - Work from the most reliable sources first
* '''Record contradictions''' - If two sources disagree, note both in the page's Notes section
* '''Don't guess''' - If you're not sure about something, mark it as uncertain or leave it blank
* '''Photograph your home''' - Current photos are valuable for the historical record
* '''Talk to neighbors''' - Long-time residents may know oral history about your block
