= Census Data Guide =

This guide explains how to find, transcribe, and enter US Census data for Benicia into the wiki.

== Available Census Years ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Year !! Addresses? !! Notes !! Access
|-
| 1850 || No || First census to include Benicia. No street addresses recorded. || FamilySearch (free)
|-
| 1852 || No || California State Census (not federal). Captures Benicia near its peak as state capital. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1860 || No || No street addresses. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1870 || No || No street addresses. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1880 || Partial || First census with addresses, but small towns often inconsistent. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1890 || — || '''Destroyed by fire.''' No records survive for California. || —
|-
| 1900 || Yes || Good address data for Benicia. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1910 || Yes || Aligns with 1913 Sanborn map. Recommended starting point. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1920 || Yes || Post-WWI Benicia. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1930 || Yes || Pre-Depression snapshot. || FamilySearch
|-
| 1940 || Yes || Aligns with 1942 Sanborn map. Arsenal activity visible. || FamilySearch, NARA
|-
| 1950 || Yes || Most recently released census. || FamilySearch
|}

== How to Find Benicia Census Records ==
# Go to [https://www.familysearch.org FamilySearch.org] (free account required)
# Search for '''Browse All Published Collections'''
# Select the census year
# Navigate to: '''California > Solano County > Benicia'''
# Browse the enumeration district pages

'''Tip:''' For the 1910-1940 censuses, you can also search by name to find specific individuals.

== How to Transcribe a Census Record ==
When viewing a census page image:

# '''Record exactly what you see.''' Don't correct spelling or interpret unclear handwriting.
# '''Note the page metadata:'''
#* Enumeration District number
#* Page number
#* Line number
#* Dwelling number and Family number
# '''Record the address''' as written on the form (if present)
# '''Record the head of household''' name
# '''Count household members'''
# '''Note occupations''' - these are valuable for understanding the community

== How to Enter Census Data in the Wiki ==
Use [[Form:CensusEntry]] to create a new census record page.

'''Page naming convention:''' <code>Census 1910 - 123 West G Street - Smith</code>

If the census record has no address (pre-1880), use: <code>Census 1860 - ED1 Page 5 Line 12 - Smith</code>

== Fields to Record ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Field !! Description !! Example
|-
| Census Year || Which census || 1910
|-
| Enumeration District || ED number from page header || 151
|-
| Page Number || Page number || 5A
|-
| Line Number || Line on the page || 32
|-
| Dwelling Number || Sequential dwelling count || 87
|-
| Family Number || Sequential family count || 91
|-
| Census Address || Address exactly as written || 123 G St
|-
| Modern Address || Current address if known || [[123 West G Street]]
|-
| Head of Household || Name of household head || [[John Smith]]
|-
| Household Members || Total people in household || 5
|-
| Source URL || FamilySearch image URL || https://www.familysearch.org/...
|}

== Linking Census Records to Properties ==
The most valuable thing you can do is '''connect a census record to a modern property page'''. This requires:

# Finding the address in the census record
# Determining which current property that address corresponds to
# Creating the link in the "Modern Address" field

For pre-1880 censuses without addresses, this is speculative work. If you believe you can identify a household's location from context (neighbors, occupation, etc.), add it but '''clearly flag it as uncertain''' in the Notes section.

== Common Challenges ==

=== Handwriting ===
Census taker handwriting varies widely. When uncertain:
* Record your best reading
* Add "[?]" after uncertain words
* Note alternatives in the page's Notes section

=== Name Spelling ===
Names were often spelled phonetically by the census taker. "Schmitt" might appear as "Smith," "Smyth," or "Schmit." Create Person pages with the most common spelling and note variants.

=== Address Changes ===
The address "123 G Street" in 1910 may not be "123 West G Street" today. Benicia renumbered streets and added directional prefixes over time. See [[Project:Address Changes]] for guidance.

== Recommended Workflow ==
# '''Start with 1910''' - It has reliable addresses and aligns with the 1913 Sanborn map
# '''Work one enumeration district page at a time''' - This keeps you organized
# '''Create Person pages''' for heads of household as you go
# '''Link to property pages''' when you can confidently identify the modern address
# '''Move to 1920, then 1900, then 1930''' - Expand outward from your starting point
