= Data Sources =

This page documents every data source used in the Benicia Historic Homes Wiki, organized by reliability tier.

== Tier 1: Authoritative Government Records ==

=== 1a. Solano County GIS Data ===
* '''Source:''' Solano County ReGIS (regis.solanocounty.com)
* '''What it provides:''' Current addresses, Assessor's Parcel Numbers (APNs), geographic coordinates, parcel boundaries
* '''Format:''' Shapefile (SHP/DBF/PRJ/SHX)
* '''Update frequency:''' Monthly
* '''Reliability:''' Very high for current addresses
* '''How we use it:''' This is the foundation layer. Every property page in the wiki was initially created from this data. It tells us what exists today at each address.
* '''Limitations:''' Contains current data only. Does not include historical information, build dates, or architectural details.

=== 1b. City of Benicia Historic Resources Inventory (2009) ===
* '''Source:''' City of Benicia Community Development Department
* '''Surveyor:''' Carol Roland, Ph.D.
* '''What it provides:''' DPR 523 survey forms with designation status (Contributor, Landmark, Non-Contributor), architectural descriptions, build dates, historical significance
* '''Format:''' Individual PDF files per property
* '''Reliability:''' Very high. Professional survey using California Department of Parks and Recreation standard forms.
* '''How we use it:''' Enriches property pages with architectural details and designation status.

=== 1c. Downtown Historic District Design Guidelines (2018) ===
* '''Source:''' City of Benicia
* '''What it provides:''' Appendix (p. 156+) contains a compiled list of historic property addresses in the district
* '''Reliability:''' Very high. Official city document.

=== 1d. Benicia Historic Context Statement (2011) ===
* '''Source:''' City of Benicia
* '''What it provides:''' Thematic history by era, analysis of the Downtown Historic Overlay District, building-by-building discussions
* '''Reliability:''' Very high. Peer-reviewed professional document.

== Tier 2: Federal Records ==

=== 2a. Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps ===
* '''Source:''' Library of Congress, Geography and Map Division
* '''Available years:''' 1886, 1891, 1899, 1913, 1942
* '''What they provide:''' Building footprints, construction materials, stories, use, street names, house numbers, block numbers
* '''Access:''' Free at loc.gov (pre-1926 maps are public domain)
* '''Reliability:''' Very high for the date surveyed
* '''Important note:''' House numbers on Sanborn maps may differ from modern addresses due to street renumbering

See [[:Category:Sanborn Maps]] for the complete index.

=== 2b. US Census Records ===
* '''Source:''' National Archives; accessible via FamilySearch.org (free) and Ancestry.com (subscription)
* '''Available years:''' 1850, 1860, 1870, 1880, 1900, 1910, 1920, 1930, 1940, 1950
* '''Missing:''' 1890 (destroyed by fire)
* '''Street addresses:''' Not recorded before 1880
* '''Reliability:''' High, but census takers made errors

See [[Project:Census Data Guide]] for how to transcribe census data.

=== 2c. California State Census (1852) ===
* '''Source:''' California State Library; FamilySearch
* '''Significance:''' Captures Benicia just before it became state capital
* '''Reliability:''' Moderate

=== 2d. HABS Survey (1976) ===
* '''Source:''' Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
* '''What it provides:''' Measured drawings, photographs, written documentation of historic buildings
* '''Reliability:''' Very high

== Tier 3: Secondary Sources ==

=== 3a. Richard Dillon, "Great Expectations" ===
* Comprehensive Benicia city history
* Good for narrative context

=== 3b. Robert Bruegmann, "Benicia: Portrait of an Early California Town" (1980) ===
* Based on the 1976 HABS survey
* Detailed architectural analysis

=== 3c. Woodbridge & Cannon, "Downtown Historic Conservation Plan" (1990) ===
* Original conservation plan with building-by-building descriptions

=== 3d. 1986 Benicia Historic Inventory ===
* Earlier inventory, useful for tracking changes over time

== Tier 4: Future Sources (Designed For, Not Yet Integrated) ==

=== 4a. Benicia Herald ===
* Currently being digitized
* Will provide dated references to addresses, people, events

=== 4b. City Directories ===
* Historical resident/business listings by address
* Check Benicia Public Library for holdings

=== 4c. Solano County Recorder's Office ===
* Deed records, vital records

=== 4d. Benicia Historical Museum Archives ===
* Photographs, documents, oral histories
* Not digitized; requires in-person research
