= About the Benicia Historic Homes Wiki =

== What Is This Wiki? ==
The Benicia Historic Homes Wiki is a community research platform that documents every property in downtown Benicia, California. Our goal is to create a comprehensive, publicly accessible record of who lived where and when, what buildings looked like over time, and how the town evolved from its founding in 1847 to the present.

== Coverage Area ==
The wiki covers all properties in two areas:
* '''Downtown Benicia''' - Everything south of Military East/Military West streets, encompassing the original town grid
* '''Benicia Arsenal''' - The former military installation east of downtown

This is intentionally broader than the official Downtown Historic District. It includes properties that may not have formal historic designation but are still part of old Benicia.

== How Data Gets Into the Wiki ==
We follow a strict data reliability hierarchy:

'''Tier 1: Authoritative Government Records'''
* Solano County GIS data (current addresses, parcel numbers, coordinates)
* City of Benicia Historic Resources Inventory (2009 survey)
* City of Benicia Design Guidelines (2018)
* Benicia Historic Context Statement (2011)

'''Tier 2: Federal Records'''
* Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps (1886-1942) from the Library of Congress
* US Census Records (1850-1950)
* HABS Survey (1976)

'''Tier 3: Secondary Sources'''
* Published histories and architectural surveys

'''Tier 4: Future Sources'''
* Benicia Herald (when digitized)
* City directories
* County recorder documents
* Museum archives

== Data Quality ==
Every property page has a '''Data Confidence''' rating:
* '''High''' - Verified from multiple authoritative sources
* '''Medium''' - Based on one or two reliable sources
* '''Low''' - Based on secondary sources or unverified claims
* '''Stub''' - Only basic address data from GIS; needs research

We never fabricate data. When something is unknown, we say so.

== How to Contribute ==
# '''Create an account''' on this wiki
# '''Find a stub page''' - Browse [[:Category:Stub Pages]] for properties that need research
# '''Add information''' using the forms - [[Form:Property|Edit a Property]] or [[Form:CensusEntry|Add Census Data]]
# '''Cite your sources''' - Every fact should have a source

See [[Project:How to Research Your Home]] for a detailed guide.

== Who Maintains This Wiki ==
This wiki is a community project. The initial data was generated programmatically from Solano County GIS records and Library of Congress Sanborn map metadata. All subsequent research is contributed by volunteers.

== Technical Details ==
* Platform: MediaWiki with Semantic MediaWiki
* Data model: Structured properties, people, census records, map references
* All data is exportable as JSON, XML, or SQL backup
* Source code and setup scripts are available in the project repository
