= Wanted Pages =

This page lists research tasks and information gaps that volunteers can help fill.

== Priority Research Tasks ==

=== Census Transcription ===
No census records have been transcribed yet. Start with the 1910 census:
* Find Benicia enumeration districts on FamilySearch.org
* Transcribe one page at a time using [[Form:CensusEntry]]
* Link records to property pages when addresses match

=== Historic Designation Data ===
Property pages currently show "Not Surveyed" for historic status. To update this:
* Contact the City of Benicia Community Development Department
* Request the list of downtown historic buildings (Contributors and Landmarks)
* Or download individual DPR 523 survey forms from the city website

=== Sanborn Map Coverage ===
The Sanborn map sheet pages need their coverage areas documented:
* For each sheet in [[:Category:Sanborn Maps]], view the image at the Library of Congress
* Record which streets and blocks appear on each sheet
* Begin linking property pages to the sheets they appear on

=== Year Built Data ===
Most property stubs lack a "Year Built" field. Sources for this:
* DPR 523 survey forms (most reliable)
* Solano County Assessor records (check ca-solano.publicaccessnow.com)
* Sanborn map comparisons (first appearance gives a terminus ante quem)

== Longer-Term Projects ==

=== City Directory Transcription ===
Check the Benicia Public Library for historical city directories. These list residents and businesses by address, year by year.

=== Photograph Collection ===
Upload current photographs of historic properties to their wiki pages. Good photos show:
* The full front facade
* Architectural details
* Any visible date stones or plaques

=== Newspaper Research ===
When the Benicia Herald is digitized, researchers can search for mentions of specific addresses and people.

== How to Claim a Task ==
Simply start working on it. Add your findings directly to the relevant wiki pages. There's no formal sign-up process. If you're working on a large project (like transcribing an entire census year), consider noting it on the discussion page so others know.
