<noinclude>
This is the '''CensusRecord''' template. It is used for structured census data entries.

To enter census data, use [[Form:CensusEntry]].

[[Category:Templates]]
</noinclude><includeonly>
{| class="wikitable" style="float:right; margin-left:1em; width:300px;"
|+ style="font-size:1.1em; font-weight:bold;" | Census Record
|-
! Census Year
| [[Census Year::{{{Census Year|}}}]]
{{#if:{{{Enumeration District|}}}|{{!}}-
! Enum. District
{{!}} [[Enumeration District::{{{Enumeration District|}}}]]}}
{{#if:{{{Page Number|}}}|{{!}}-
! Page
{{!}} [[Page Number::{{{Page Number|}}}]]}}
{{#if:{{{Line Number|}}}|{{!}}-
! Line
{{!}} [[Line Number::{{{Line Number|}}}]]}}
{{#if:{{{Dwelling Number|}}}|{{!}}-
! Dwelling #
{{!}} [[Dwelling Number::{{{Dwelling Number|}}}]]}}
{{#if:{{{Family Number|}}}|{{!}}-
! Family #
{{!}} [[Family Number::{{{Family Number|}}}]]}}
|-
! Address (as recorded)
| [[Census Address::{{{Census Address|Not recorded}}}]]
{{#if:{{{Modern Address|}}}|{{!}}-
! Modern Address
{{!}} [[Modern Address::{{{Modern Address|}}}]]}}
|-
! Head of Household
| [[Head of Household::{{{Head of Household|}}}]]
{{#if:{{{Household Members|}}}|{{!}}-
! Household Size
{{!}} [[Household Members::{{{Household Members|}}}]]}}
{{#if:{{{Source URL|}}}|{{!}}-
! Source
{{!}} [{{{Source URL|}}} View Original]<br/>[[Source URL::{{{Source URL|}}}]]}}
|}

{{#ifeq:{{{Census Year|}}}|1850|
'''Note:''' The 1850 census does not include street addresses. The address association for this record, if any, is based on researcher analysis of enumeration order and other contextual evidence.
|}}
{{#ifeq:{{{Census Year|}}}|1852|
'''Note:''' This is a California State Census record, not a federal census. The state census had less standardized methodology.
|}}
{{#ifeq:{{{Census Year|}}}|1860|
'''Note:''' The 1860 census does not include street addresses. The address association for this record, if any, is based on researcher analysis.
|}}
{{#ifeq:{{{Census Year|}}}|1870|
'''Note:''' The 1870 census does not include street addresses. The address association for this record, if any, is based on researcher analysis.
|}}

[[Category:Census Records]]
[[Category:{{{Census Year|}}} Census]]
</includeonly>
